+++
title = "Reservoir Computing in R: a Tutorial for Using reservoirnet to Predict Complex Time-Series"
date = "2025-05-14"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["T Ferté", "K Ba", "D Dutartre", "P Legrand", "V Jouhet", "R Thiébaut", "X Hinaut", "<u>**B Hejblum**</u>"]
# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
# 7 = Preprint
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Computo*, in press"
publication_short = "*Computo*, in press"

doi =""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Reservoir Computing (RC) is a machine learning method based on neural networks that efficiently process information generated by dynamical systems. It has been successful in solving various tasks including time series forecasting, language processing or voice processing. RC is implemented in Python and Julia but not in R. This article introduces reservoirnet, an R package providing access to the Python API ReservoirPy, allowing R users to harness the power of reservoir computing. This article provides an introduction to the fundamentals of RC and showcases its real-world applicability through three distinct sections. First, we cover the foundational concepts of RC, setting the stage for understanding its capabilities. Next, we delve into the practical usage of reservoirnet through two illustrative examples. These examples demonstrate how it can be applied to real-world problems, specifically, regression of COVID-19 hospitalizations and classification of Japanese vowels. Finally, we present a comprehensive analysis of a real-world application of reservoirnet, where it was used to forecast COVID-19 hospitalizations at Bordeaux University Hospital using public data and electronic health records."
abstract_short = "Reservoir Computing (RC) is a machine learning method based on neural networks that efficiently process information generated by dynamical systems. It has been successful in solving various tasks including time series forecasting, language processing or voice processing. RC is implemented in Python and Julia but not in R. This article introduces reservoirnet, an R package providing access to the Python API ReservoirPy, allowing R users to harness the power of reservoir computing. This article provides an introduction to the fundamentals of RC and showcases its real-world applicability through three distinct sections. First, we cover the foundational concepts of RC, setting the stage for understanding its capabilities. Next, we delve into the practical usage of reservoirnet through two illustrative examples. These examples demonstrate how it can be applied to real-world problems, specifically, regression of COVID-19 hospitalizations and classification of Japanese vowels. Finally, we present a comprehensive analysis of a real-world application of reservoirnet, where it was used to forecast COVID-19 hospitalizations at Bordeaux University Hospital using public data and electronic health records."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
# Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "R code", url = ""}]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
