+++
title = "Post-clustering difference testing: valid inference and practical considerations"
date = "2024-01-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["B Hivert", "D Agniel", "R Thiébaut", "<u>**BP Hejblum**</u>"]
# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
# 7 = Preprint
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Computational Statistics & Data Analysis*, 107916"
publication_short = "*Computational Statistics & Data Analysis*, 107916"

doi ="10.1016/j.csda.2023.107916"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Clustering is part of unsupervised analysis methods that consist in grouping samples into homogeneous and separate subgroups of observations also called clusters. To interpret the clusters, statistical hypothesis testing is often used to infer the variables that significantly separate the estimated clusters from each other. However, data-driven hypotheses are considered for the inference process, since the hypotheses are derived from the clustering results. This double use of the data leads traditional hypothesis test to fail to control the Type I error rate particularly because of uncertainty in the clustering process and the potential artificial differences it could create. We propose three novel statistical hypothesis tests which account for the clustering process. Our tests efficiently control the Type I error rate by identifying only variables that contain a true signal separating groups of observations."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.13172"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
# Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "R code", url = "https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=VALIDICLUST"}#,{name = "Article", url = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csda.2023.107916"}]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
