+++
title = "Self-Collected Finger-Prick Blood for Gene Expression Profiling: Unveiling Early Immune Responses in Mild COVID-19"
date = "2025-12-03"


# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["R Thiébaut", "E Lhomme", "H Hocini", "I Pellegrin", "A Boizard-Moracchini", "A Duvignaud", "M Perpère", "M Huchon", "M Prague", "C Lacabaratz", "M Surenaud", "X Anglaret", "D Malvy", "<u>**BP Hejblum**</u>", "Y Lévy", "for the COVERAGE study group"]
# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
# 7 = Preprint
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*iScience*, *in press*"
publication_short = "*iScience*, *in press*"

doi ="10.1002/sim.70241"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "**Background:** Whole blood gene expression analysis is essential for understanding molecular host responses and identifying markers of disease severity. Self-collected finger-prick capillary blood provides a promising alternative to venous sampling, yet its application to transcriptomics is still underexplored. **Methods:** COVERAGE-Immuno sub-study is an ancillary study of the COVERAGE France platform trial (NCT04356495), a randomized controlled trial of COVID-19 early treatment in at risk patients with mild COVID-19 monitored at home. Participants recruited additional sampling for in-depth, repeated evaluation of the immunological markers and gene expression data. We compared gene expression data obtained simultaneously from venous blood (Tempus tube) and ultralow-volume finger-prick samples. **Findings:** Our analysis revealed moderate to good concordance between the two sampling methods at the gene level (ICC=0·74) and excellent agreement at the gene set level. Cell frequency deconvolution exhibited similar performance in both Tempus and Finger-prick, notably for B and CD8+ T cells, and serum biomarker IL-1b and IP-10 dynamics were also identifiable from gene expression regardless of the sampling technology, thus offering valuable insights into SARS-CoV-2 pathophysiology. Hence, the dynamics of the immune response could be analyzed at a daily resolution, confirming early signals of neutrophil activation, interferon signaling, erythroid cell involvement, and inflammation pathways during the early stages of mild COVID-19. **Interpretation:** These findings validate the feasibility and reliability of finger-prick sampling for at-home use, providing a unique tool for advanced clinical research and precision medicine. **Funding:** EIT Health (Grant number: 20874 COVERAGE-Immuno)."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.05.06.25327063v1.full.pdf"
url_preprint = "https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.05.06.25327063"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
# Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "R codes", url = "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14447222"}]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
