+++
title = "Running in circles: practical limitations for real-life application of data fission and data thinning in post-clustering differential analysis"
date = "2024-05-26"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["B Hivert", "D Agniel", "R Thiébaut", "<u>**BP Hejblum**</u>"]
# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
# 7 = Preprint
publication_types = ["7"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*arXiv* 2405.13591"
publication_short = "*arXiv* 2405.13591"

doi ="10.48550/arXiv.2405.13591"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Post-clustering inference in scRNA-seq analysis presents significant 
challenges in controlling Type I error during Differential Expression Analysis. 
Data fission, a promising approach, aims to split the data into two new independent 
parts, but relies on strong parametric assumptions of non-mixture distributions, 
which are violated in clustered data. We show that applying data fission to these 
mixtures requires knowledge of the clustering structure to accurately estimate 
component-specific scale parameters. These estimates are critical for ensuring 
decomposition and independence. We theoretically quantify the direct impact of 
the bias in estimating this scales parameters on the inflation of the Type I 
error rate, caused by a deviation from the independence. Since component 
structures are unknown in practice, we propose a heteroscedastic model with 
non-parametric estimators for individual scale parameters. This model uses 
proximity between observations to capture the effect of the underlying mixture 
on data dispersion. While this approach works well when clusters are well-separated, 
it introduces bias when separation is weak, highlighting the difficulty of applying 
data fission in real-world scenarios with unknown degrees of separation."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2405.13591"
url_preprint = "https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.13591"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
# Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "R code", url = "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1120777"}]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
