+++
title = "Analyzing cellular immunogenicity in vaccine clinical trials: a new statistical method including non-specific responses for accurate estimation of vaccine effect"
date = "2020-02-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["E Lhomme", "<u>**BP Hejblum**</u>", "C Lacabaratz", "A Wiedemann", "JD Lelièvre", "Y Lévy", "R Thiébaut", "L Richert"]
# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Journal of Immunological Methods*, 477:112711"
publication_short = "*JIM*, 477:112711"

doi ="10.1016/j.jim.2019.112711"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Evaluation of vaccine immunogenicity is a key step in the clinical development of vaccines; the T-cell responses to vaccine candidates are typically assessed by intracellular cytokine staining using flow cytometry. Conventional approaches for analyzing T-cell responses do not take into consideration the relationship between the specific response and the background response and can compromise statistical performance, particularly in terms of the type-I error rate and statistical power. We propose a new modeling approach that considers all measured data and is more flexible than conventional methods, which yields more detailed results (vaccine effect on the non-stimulated response and non-stimulated response effect on stimulated response) and enables accurate interpretation of vaccine-induced response."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022175919303151/pdfft?md5=4d4eaf84d771db5becc8df4254cddfa6&pid=1-s2.0-S0022175919303151-main.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
# Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "R package", url = "https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=vici"}, {name = "Shiny web app", url = "https://shiny-vici.apps.math.cnrs.fr/"}, {name = "Article", url = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022175919303151"}]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
