+++
title = "Probabilistic record linkage of de-identified research datasets with discrepancies using diagnosis codes"
date = "2018-12-02"



# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["<u>**BP Hejblum**</u>", "GMWeber", "KP Liao", "NP Palmer", "S Churchill", "NA Shadick", "P Szolovits", "SM Murphy", "IS Kohane", "T Cai"]
# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Scientific Data*, in press"
publication_short = "*Sci. Data*, in press"

doi =""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "We develop an algorithm for probabilistic linkage of de-identified research datasets at the patient level, when only diagnosis codes with discrepancies and no personal health identifiers such as name or date of birth are available. It relies on Bayesian modelling of binarized diagnosis codes, and provides a posterior probability of matching for each patient pair, while considering all the data at once. Both in our simulation study (using an administrative claims dataset for data generation) and in two real use-cases linking patient electronic health records from a large tertiary care network, our method exhibits good performance and compares favourably to the standard baseline Fellegi-Sunter algorithm. We propose a scalable, fast and efficient open-source implementation in the ludic R package available on CRAN, which also includes the anonymized diagnosis code data from our real use-case. This work suggests it is possible to link de-identified research databases stripped of any personal health identifiers using only diagnosis codes, provided sufficient information is shared between the data sources."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
# Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "R package", url = "https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=ludic"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
